# What is a foundation engagement?

A foundation engagement is a short (6-10 week) project to better understand and define an agency client's problem space. The intent of the engagment is for 18F to be in a better position to advise the client on how to solve their problem. 

These short-term efforts are run by a small, two-person team of strategists. The inter-agency agreement uses a GSA-approved [SOW template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PeA7LChLuY8MmlWfSyw6sl1aVlITtS9GI7blrYiDa2g/edit?ts=57ffe7df) to get through the agreements process quickly. 

Here's how we'll do this: 
* Review existing research to help us understand the current situation. 
* Scope and refine the problem statement or product vision in a co-working session with key stakeholders.
* Conduct original research using whatever techniques make sense: qualitative research (e.g., interviewing key stakeholders and end users, observing people working in context), quantitative research (e.g., website analytics), and reviewing the current state (e.g., examining systems, software, source code, processes, policies, rules, and methods)
* Create prototypes to elicit feedback from defined user groups, if appropriate.
* Analyze the information collected to produce a set of findings.
* Create recommendations that address the findings and the agency client's goals.

Deliverables will include:
* Problem definition/product vision: The explicit objectives to achieve the organization’s goals.
* Strategy: A stated approach to achieve the agency's desired outcome.
* Any prototypes, wireframes, data, or other documents generated by 18F.

